---
title: 'Difference between TypeScript and JavaScript'
date: '2022-12-04'
---

TypeScript and JavaScript are two programming languages that have a lot in
common, but also have some key differences.

JavaScript is a scripting language that is widely used for web development, app
development, and server-side programming. It is a dynamically-typed language,
which means that variables and data structures do not have fixed types, and can
change their type as needed during program execution. JavaScript is also a
loosely-typed language, which means that it does not enforce strict rules for
type checking and type compatibility.

TypeScript is a programming language that is built on top of JavaScript, and
adds support for static typing and other advanced language features. TypeScript
is a typed language, which means that variables and data structures have fixed
types that are specified by the programmer, and the language enforces strict
rules for type checking and type compatibility. TypeScript also includes many
other features, such as interfaces, classes, and modules, that are not available
in JavaScript.

One of the main differences between TypeScript and JavaScript is the way they
handle types. In TypeScript, types are an essential part of the language, and
are used to enforce type safety and prevent common type errors. In JavaScript,
on the other hand, types are dynamic and flexible, and are not enforced by the
language. This means that TypeScript programs are more predictable and reliable
than JavaScript programs, but also require more effort to write and maintain.

Another key difference between TypeScript and JavaScript is the level of support
for advanced language features. TypeScript includes many features that are not
available in JavaScript, such as interfaces, classes, and modules, which are
useful for creating large and complex programs. JavaScript, on the other hand,
is a simpler language that does not include these features, and relies on other
techniques, such as prototypes and closures, to support advanced programming
patterns.

Overall, TypeScript and JavaScript are similar languages that have a lot in
common, but also have some important differences. TypeScript adds support for
static typing and other advanced language
