---
title: 'Major new features of Rust Programming Language'
date: '2022-12-10'
---

Some of the major new features of the Rust programming language include:

Improved error handling and error messages: Rust 1.46 introduced a new error
handling model called !, which provides improved error messages and makes it
easier for developers to handle and propagate errors in their programs. This new
model also allows for better control over error messages, and enables developers
to customize and tailor error messages to their specific needs.

New async/await syntax: Rust 1.39 introduced a new async/await syntax that makes
it easier to write asynchronous programs in Rust. The new syntax allows
developers to use async/await keywords to mark functions and blocks of code as
asynchronous, and provides a more intuitive and readable way to write
asynchronous code.

New tools for package management and dependency management: Rust 1.41 introduced
a new package manager called cargo-vendor, which provides tools for managing
dependencies and vendoring packages. The new package manager allows developers
to specify exact versions of dependencies and packages, and ensures that the
same versions are used across all environments and platforms.

Improved support for WebAssembly: Rust 1.46 introduced a new WebAssembly target,
called wasm32-wasi, which provides improved support for developing and deploying
Rust programs as WebAssembly modules. The new target allows developers to write
Rust programs that can be compiled to WebAssembly and run on the Web, and
provides access to new WebAssembly APIs and features.

New macros and macro expansion improvements: Rust 1.46 introduced a new macro
system, called macro 2.0, which provides improved support for macros and macro
expansion. The new macro system allows developers to define and use macros more
easily, and provides better error messages and improved hygiene during macro
expansion.

Overall, the Rust programming language continues to evolve and improve, with new
features and improvements being added in each new release.
